h1. glogg - A fast, advanced log explorer

glogg is a multi-platform GUI application that helps browse and search
through long and complex log files.  It is designed with programmers and
system administrators in mind and can be seen as a graphical, interactive
combination of grep and less.

h2. Main features
* Runs on Unix-like systems, Windows and Mac thanks to Qt
* Provides a second window showing the result of the current search
* Supports grep/egrep like regular expressions
* Colorizes the log and search results
* Displays a context view of where in the log the lines of interest are
* Is fast and reads the file directly from disk, without loading it into memory
* Supports vim/less like keyboard commands to move around the file
* Is open source, released under the GPL

h2. Installation

h3. Windows

An up to date Windows installer is available at http://groups.google.com/group/glogg-devel/web

h3. From source code

For other platforms, you can build glogg from source.
The source code is hosted on a git repository at git://github.com/nickbnf/glogg.git
Building is to be done this way:

<pre>
<code>
git clone git://github.com/nickbnf/glogg.git
cd glogg
qmake (or qmake-qt4 on debian/ubuntu)
make
make install INSTALL_ROOT=/usr/local (as root if needed)
</code>
</pre>

You need to have the Qt development libraries installed (tested on version 4.3.0 and later).

h2. Development

glogg is mainly written and currently maintained by Nicolas Bonnefon
(nicolas (at) bonnefon (dot) org).  Feel free to send him any suggestion,
patch, bug report...

glogg has a github project page to allow people to keep in touch with the
development at http://wiki.github.com/nickbnf/glogg
